<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_steam">
    <title>Concept - Steam </title>
    <shortdesc></shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>Steam is a video game digital distribution service by Valve. It was launched as a
            standalone software client in September 2003 as a way for Valve to provide automatic
            updates for their games, and expanded to include games from third-party publishers.
            Steam has also expanded into an online web-based and mobile digital storefront. Steam
            offers digital rights management (DRM), server hosting, video streaming, and social
            networking services. It also provides the user with installation and automatic updating
            of games, and community features such as friends lists and groups, cloud storage, and
            in-game voice and chat functionality.</p>
        <p>The software provides a freely available application programming interface (API) called
            Steamworks, which developers can use to integrate many of Steam's functions into their
            products, including in-game achievements, microtransactions, and support for
            user-created content through Steam Workshop. Though initially developed for use on
            Microsoft Windows operating systems, versions for macOS and Linux were later released.
            Mobile apps were also released for iOS, Android, and Windows Phone in the 2010s. The
            platform also offers a small selection of other content, including design software,
            hardware, game soundtracks, anime, and films. </p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
